- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we're going to create our first chunk-based step
that contains a very simple item reader
and item writer implementation.
So, to get us started,
I've created a simple job within our configuration.
And that job contains one step,
and it's the chunk-based step.
Now, at the moment, this step isn't defined.
So, we're going to go ahead
and build that out using our step builder factory.
We're going to name our step, chunk-based step.
And then once we have provided a name for our step,
we're going to use a different method.
It's going to be the chunk method.
And the chunk method requires us
to supply two type arguments.
And the type arguments signify the type of input
to the chunk and the type of output.
So, in this case, we're going to be Working with strings,
and then we're able to call the chunk method.
And the method itself accepts an argument
that determines our chunk size.
So, our chunk size is going to be three for this step.
The next thing we specify
within our chunk-based configuration is the item reader.
And we can do that using the reader method.
And we're going to be creating our own item reader
within a method that will declare
that item reader as a bean.
So, I'm just going to stub that for now.
And then the next thing we need to do
is define the item writer
that we're going to be working with.
We're going to define an item writer
in line within the configuration of our step.
So, we'll use the item writer interface
and we'll give it the generic type of string
and then within the configuration for the step,
we can go ahead and define that item writer.
Now, I'm just going to go ahead right now
and build our step even though it's incomplete.
Now, let's get to work on this item writer.
So, the first thing we'll need to do
is import the item writer interface.
And then you can add the unimplemented methods.
And you can hit Control + 1 to get these pop ups.
And it provides you with some helpful tolling
that will put the interface in place for you to implement.
You'll notice the item writer interface
has the right method.
And that right method receives a list of items.
So, it's not working with an individual item,
it's working with a chunk.
And to see that we can write some console output.
So, I'll just format a string
and we'll say that we received lists of size,
and then we'll print out the size of our list.
That way, we can see that we're getting in chunks.
And then we'll take the item size,
pass that as an argument to the format method.
And then the next thing we're going to do
is take that list, and for each item in the list,
we can go ahead and write that to our console.
So, I'll just use the system dot out dot println method,
and that will output our list to the console.
So, we have our very, very basic item writer implementation.
Now, it's time to continue work on the item reader.
So, I'm going to go ahead and hit Control + 1 one once again,
that's going to allow me to create the item reader method.
Now, I'm going to move that just above our step.
I kind of like to keep them ordered in that way.
And then we'll switch this over over to a public method.
And the item reader is going to be declared as a bean.
So, I can add that annotation.
And then our item reader is going to handle strings.
So, I'm going to go ahead and just modify
that generic argument there.
And then within the body of this method,
we're going to instantiate the bean.
And in this case,
we're going to actually create an item reader.
So here, I just create a stub for a constructor
of a class named, simple item reader.
And then I can hit Control + 1 once again,
and I get the option to create the class.
So, I'll select that and hit Finish.
It's kind of a quick way to be able to write some code.
So, here is our item reader.
You'll notice that we implement the item reader interface
and within this item reader,
we're going to create some data that we can work with.
I'm going to create a list of strings.
And we'll just declare that as a new ArrayList.
And we'll import java util dot list.
The next thing that we'll do
is declare a field of type iterator.
And I'm going to name that field iterator as well.
And we can go ahead and import that type.
And then I'm going to add a constructor
for our simple item reader.
And within this constructor,
we're going to do a couple things.
First, we're going to add some items to our data set.
So, I'm going to go ahead and add about five items
to that data set.
And we'll just kind of sequentially go through
and add these numbers in.
And then the next thing we're going to do
is assign our iterator.
So, we have some phony data setup
that we can work with now.
Let's focus on the read method of our item reader.
So, this method is going to be called over and over again,
basically until it returns null signaling to the framework
that it has exhausted the items from the data source.
So, in this case,
we're going to just grab each item out of our iterator.
So, we can check to see if the iterator
has an item within it.
If it does, we can go ahead and return that item.
Otherwise, we're going to return null
and signal to the framework that there are no items.
So, it's important to understand that read method,
it's going to be invoked once per each item,
found in the chunks that are read from a data set
when the job is processing.
And after the item reader has read these chunks,
they would get passed to a processor or a writer,
depending upon what's available.
It will definitely have to go to a writer.
The processor is optional.
So, let's navigate back over to our class and save it.
And at this point, we are set up to execute our job.
So, to execute our job,
if you take a look within the directory for this project,
you'll notice that I've added another script,
the run underscore job dot sh script,
and you can use this to quickly kick off the job
that we've built.
So, here it's going to package the job with Maven
in order to build our jar.
Then once built, it will execute our job.
So, let's take a look at what happened here.
You can see that we launched the job.
And then we started reading the different items
from the data store,
which is our list in this case,
and we read them in chunks of three.
Now, you'll notice we read the first chunk of three.
And then because we only had five items,
the last chunk only had two.
So, that was our first chunk-based example.
And we were able to see the role the item reader plays
within a chunk-based step.
As I mentioned,
the framework contains several implementations
of the item reader
that we can leverage out of the box.
And that's what we're going to explore
in the upcoming lessons.